# Python Search Chatbot

This project implements a FastAPI-based chatbot that collects user details (email and phone number), validates them, and allows users to perform web searches using the DuckDuckGo search engine. 

## Features

- Collect and validate user details (email and phone number).
- Perform web searches using DuckDuckGo.
- FastAPI integration with automatic interactive API documentation.

## Getting Started

Follow these instructions to set up and run the project on your local machine.

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.8 or higher
- Git

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/shonejj/Python-search-chatbot.git
2. **Navigate into the project directory**

   ```bash
    cd Python-search-chatbot
3. **python3 -m venv venv**

   ```bash
    python3 -m venv venv

4. **Activate the virtual environment**

    On Windows:
    
   ```bash
   
       venv\Scripts\activate
    
   On macOS and Linux:
    
       source venv/bin/activate
    

5. **Install the required packages**

     ```bash
     pip install -r requirements.txt


6. **Running the Application . Start the FastAPI application**

     ```bash
     uvicorn main:app --reload


7.  **Open your browser and go to the interactive API documentation**  

      ```bash
      http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs


  
  Here, you can interact with the API, test endpoints, and see the automatic documentation generated by FastAPI.
  
  Project Structure
  main.py: The main FastAPI application file containing the endpoint definitions and data models.
  requirements.txt: List of required Python packages for the project.
  user_details.json: JSON file used for storing user details.
  Usage
  Navigate to http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs to access the Swagger UI.
  Use the /user-details/ endpoint to submit user details.
  Perform web searches using the chatbot.
  
